Rework the second chapter (#29)
0xAX/asm: content/asm_2.md

- `DB` - `byte` - 8 bits
- `DW` - `word` - 2 bytes
- `DD` - `doubleword` - 4 bytes
- `DQ` - `quadword` - 8 bytes
- `DT` - 10 bytes
- `DO` - 16 bytes
- `DY` - 32 bytes
- `DZ` - 64 bytes

The pseudo-instructions from `DB` to `DQ` are used to define data with the size from `byte` to `quadword`. Additionally, `DT` is used to define 10 bytes, `DO` is used to define 16 bytes, `DY` is used to define 32 bytes, and `DZ` is used to define 64 bytes. 

For example:

```assembly
section .data
    ;; Define a byte with the value 100
    num1   db 100
    ;; Define 2 bytes with the value 1024
    num2   dw 1024
    ;; Define a set of characters (10 is a new line symbol in ASCII \n)
    msg    db "Sum is correct", 10
```

There are also alternatives to define uninitialized storage - `RESB`, `RESW`, `RESD`, `RESQ`, `REST`, `RESO`, `RESY`, and `RESZ`. They are used in a similar way to the `DB`, `DW` and so on but we do not provide an initial value for the defined variable.

For example:

```assembly
section .bss
    ;; Define a buffer with the size 64 bytes
    buffer resb 64
```

> After variables are defined we can start to use them in the code of our program. To use a variable we can refer it by name. Although there is a small thing to remember in the NASM assembly syntax. If we will access a variable just by a name, we will get the address of it but not the actual value this variable stores:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After defining variables, we can start using them in our program's code. To use a variable, we can refer it by name. However, there is a small thing to remember in the NASM assembly syntax: accessing a variable by name gets us its address, not the actual value it stores:
```

```assembly
;; Move the address of the `num1` variable to the al register
move al, num1
```

> If we want to get the actual value that is located by the given address we need to specify the variable name in square brackets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the actual value that located in the given address, we need to specify the variable name in square brackets:
```

To get the actual value located in the given address, we need to specify the variable name in square brackets:

```assembly
;; Move the value of num1 to the al register
mov al, [num1]
```

### Stack

We can not dive into assembly programming without understanding one of the crucial concepts of the `x86_64` (and other) architectures — the [stack](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stack_(abstract_data_type). The stack is a specific memory area in a program that is accessed in a last-in, first-out (LIFO) pattern.

> A processor has a very limited number of registers. As we already know, an `x86_64` processor provides access to only 16 general purpose registers. This number is very limited. Often, we may need more – or even much more space – to store data. One way to solve this issue is by using the program's stack. We can look at the stack as the usual memory area but with one significant difference – its access pattern. 

Reviewer: repetition of the first sentence

In the [system call](#system-call) section, we saw that the first six arguments of a system call are passed in the general purpose registers. According to the calling conventions document:

> System-calls are limited to six arguments, no argument is passed directly on the stack.

So the available number of general purpose registers should be enough to execute any system call. But what about other functions? What if one has more than six arguments? In this case, the first six parameters are also passed in general purpose registers and all the next parameters are passed on the stack. The set of general purpose registers to call a library function is slightly different from the set of registers used for a system call:

- `rdi` - used to pass the first argument to a function.
- `rsi` - used to pass the second argument to a function.
- `rdx` - used to pass the third argument to a function.
- `rcx` - used to pass the fourth argument to a function.
- `r8` - used to pass the fifth argument to a function.
- `r9` - used to pass the sixth argument to a function.

> Let’s take a look at the assembly code of a simple example written in the C programming language to better illustrate the topic:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let’s take a look at the simple code example written in the C programming language to better illustrate the topic:
```

```C
int foo(int arg1, int arg2, int arg3, int arg4, int arg5, int arg6, int arg7, int arg8) {
    return arg1 + arg2 + arg3 + arg4 + arg5 + arg6 + arg7 + arg8;
}

int bar() {
    return foo(1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8);
}
```

If we compile it and look at the assembly code, we will see such an output of the program:

```assembly
bar:
        ;; Preserve the base pointer
        push    rbp
        ;; Preserve the stack pointer
        mov     rbp, rsp
        ;; Push the eight argument on the stack
        push    8
        ;; Push the seventh argument on the stack
        push    7
        ;; Push the sixth argument on the stack
        mov     r9d, 6
        ;; Push the fifth argument on the stack
        mov     r8d, 5
        ;; Push the fourth argument on the stack
        mov     ecx, 4
        ;; Push the third argument on the stack
        mov     edx, 3
        ;; Push the second argument on the stack
        mov     esi, 2
        ;; Push the first argument on the stack
        mov     edi, 1
        ;; Call the function `foo`
        call    foo

>         ;; Clean-up the stack from the 8th and 7th arguments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ;; Clean up the stack from the 8th and 7th arguments
```

        ;; Preserve the stack pointer
        mov     rbp, rsp
        ;; Move 4 bytes value from the edi register to the address stored in the rbp register minus 4 bytes offset
        mov     DWORD PTR [rbp-4], edi
        ;; Move 4 bytes value from the esi register to the address stored in the rbp register minus 8 bytes offset
        mov     DWORD PTR [rbp-8], esi
        ;; Move 4 bytes value from the edx register to the address stored in the rbp register minus 12 bytes offset
        mov     DWORD PTR [rbp-12], edx
        ;; Move 4 bytes value from the ecx register to the address stored in the rbp register minus 16 bytes offset
        mov     DWORD PTR [rbp-16], ecx
        ;; Move 4 bytes value from the r8d register to the address stored in the rbp register minus 20 bytes offset
        mov     DWORD PTR [rbp-20], r8d
        ;; Move 4 bytes value from the r9d register to the address stored in the rbp register minus 24 bytes offset
        mov     DWORD PTR [rbp-24], r9d
        ...
        ... # Skip arithmetic operations for now
        ...
        ;; Restore the old rbp
        pop     rbp
        ;; Return from the function
        ret
```

> [!NOTE]

> > The C program should be compiled without any optimization flags because the compiler may eliminate all the calculation and just calculate the sum of arguments in compile time. You can use `-O0 -masm=intel` flags for compiler to avoid optimization. You can use tools like [godbolt](https://godbolt.org/) to see the assembly output of these functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The C program should be compiled without any optimization flags because the compiler may eliminate all the calculations and just calculate the sum of arguments in compile time. You can use `-O0 -masm=intel` flags for the compiler to avoid optimization. You can use tools like [godbolt](https://godbolt.org/) to see the assembly output of these functions.
```

First of all, let's take a look at the first two lines of code in the function `bar`:

```assembly
push    rbp
mov     rbp, rsp
```

These two instructions at the beginning of each function are called [function prologue](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Function_prologue_and_epilogue#Prologue). Each function usually operates with a part of the stack. Such a part is called a [stack frame](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_stack). To manage the stack, the CPU uses these general purpose registers:

> - `rip` - this register `rip` is the so-called `instruction pointer`. This register stores the address of the next instruction the CPU is going to execute. When the CPU meets the `call` instruction to call a function, it pushes the address of the next instruction to run after the function call to the stack. This is done so the CPU knows where to continue the program's execution after the function call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `rip` - this register is the so-called `instruction pointer`. It stores the address of the next instruction the CPU is going to execute. When the CPU meets the `call` instruction to call a function, it pushes the address of the next instruction to run after the function call to the stack. This is done so the CPU knows where to continue the program's execution after the function call.
```

- `rsp` - this register is called a `stack pointer` and should point to the top of the stack. After we push something to the stack using the `push` instruction, the stack pointer address decreases. After we pop something from the stack using the `pop` instruction, the stack pointer address increases.

> - `rbp` - this register `rbp` is the so-called `frame pointer` or `base pointer` that points to the stack frame. As mentioned above, each function has its own stack frame, which is a memory area where the function stores [local variables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Local_variable) and other data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `rbp` - this register is the so-called `frame pointer` or `base pointer` that points to the stack frame. As mentioned above, each function has its own stack frame, which is a memory area where the function stores [local variables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Local_variable) and other data.
```

> - `rip` - the general purpose register `rip` is the so-called `instruction pointer`. This register stores the address of the next instruction the CPU is going to execute. When the CPU meets the `call` instruction to call a function, it pushes the address of the next instruction to run after the function call to the stack. This is done so the CPU knows where to continue the program's execution after the function call.
> - `rsp` - the `rsp` register is called a `stack pointer` and should point to the top of the stack. After we push something to the stack using the `push` instruction, the stack pointer address decreases. After we pop something from the stack using the `pop` instruction, the stack pointer address increases.
> - `rbp` - the general purpose register `rbp` is the so-called `frame pointer` or `base pointer` that points to the stack frame. As mentioned above, each function has its own stack frame, which is a memory area where the function stores [local variables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Local_variable) and other data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `rip` - this register is the so-called `instruction pointer`. It stores the address of the next instruction the CPU is going to execute. When the CPU meets the `call` instruction to call a function, it pushes the address of the next instruction to run after the function call to the stack. This is done so the CPU knows where to continue the program's execution after the function call.
- `rsp` - this register is called a `stack pointer` and should point to the top of the stack. After we push something to the stack using the `push` instruction, the stack pointer address decreases. After we pop something from the stack using the `pop` instruction, the stack pointer address increases.
- `rbp` - this register is the so-called `frame pointer` or `base pointer` that points to the stack frame. As mentioned above, each function has its own stack frame, which is a memory area where the function stores [local variables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Local_variable) and other data.
```

For calculations, we need to access the input parameters. This is done using the address stored in the `rbp` register and offsets from this address. These offsets are negative because the stack grows down towards lower memory addresses. At first, we move the value stored in the `edi` register (the first argument of the `foo` function) to the address stored in the `rbp` register with the `-4` bytes offset. Similarly, we move the value stored in the `esi` register (the second argument) to the address stored in the `rbp` register with the `-8` bytes offset. We repeat this operation for all six input arguments.

Let's read once again the sentence from the paragraph above:

> For calculations, we need to access the input parameters. This is done using the address stored in the `rbp` register and offsets from this address.

> What was the address stored in the `rbp` register? Our stack pointer! So after the last `mov` instruction in the function `foo`, our stack frame will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What was the address stored in the `rbp` register? Our stack pointer! So after running the last `mov` instruction in the function `foo`, our stack frame looks like this:
```

![stack](./assets/stack.svg)

That is the whole point of the `rbp` register. It plays the role of an anchor or a base point in the function. Using the positive offsets, we can access the return address and parameters pushed onto the stack by the caller. On the other hand, negative offsets allow us to access local variables of the current function.

> Right before returning from the `foo` function, we encounter the so-called [function epilogue](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Function_prologue_and_epilogue#Epilogue). During this step, we restore the initial value of the `rbp` by removing it from the stack. Finally, the last `ret` instruction pops the return address from the stack, and the program's execution continues from this address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Right before returning from the `foo` function, we encounter the so-called [function epilogue](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Function_prologue_and_epilogue#Epilogue). During this step, we restore the initial value of `rbp` by removing it from the stack. Finally, the last `ret` instruction pops the return address from the stack, and the program's execution continues from this address.
```

## Example

After we went thought the most important concepts, it is time to return to the most interesting part - writing the programs. Let's take a look at our second simple assembly program. The program will take two integer numbers, get the sum of these numbers and compare it with the third predefined number. If the predefined number is equal to sum, the program will print something on the screen, if not - the program will just exit.

> Before writing the code we need to know how to execute basic arithmetic expressions and compare the things.

Author: I reworked it a bit, please take a look.

### Basic arithmetic instructions

Here is the list of some assembly instructions to execute arithmetic operations:

- `ADD`  - Addition.

> - `SUB`  - Substraction.

Author: Removed.

```assembly
;; compare value of the rax register with 50
cmp rax, 50
```

The `cmp` instruction executes only comparison of its parameters without affecting values of the parameters themselves. To perform any actions after the comparison, there is conditional jump instructions. The list of these instructions:

-  `JE`  - Jump if the values are equal.
-  `JNE` - Jump if the values are not equal.
-  `JZ`  - Jump if the difference between the two values is zero.
-  `JNZ` - Jump if the difference between the two values is not zero.
-  `JG`  - Jump if the first value is greater than the second.
-  `JGE` - Jump if the first is greater or equal to the second.
-  `JA`  - The same that JG, but performs unsigned comparison.

> -  `JAE` - The same that JGE, but performs unsigned comparison.

Author: Actually the same. Very good catch. I combined them into one `JE/JZ`

> -  `JAE` - The same that JGE, but performs unsigned comparison.

Reviewer: Shouldn't be the same with JNE and JNZ?

> -  `JAE` - The same that JGE, but performs unsigned comparison.

Author: Yes, you are right. Also combined them into one line.

For example if we want translate something like this if/else statement written in C:

```C
if (rax != 50) {
    foo();
} else {
    bar();
}
```

to assembly, it will something like this:

```assembly
;; compare rax with 50
cmp rax, 50
;; jump to the label `.foo` if the value of the `rax` register is not equal to 50
jne .foo
;; jump to the label `.bar` otherwise
jmp .bar
```

In addition we can jump on a label without any conditions with the `jmp` instruction:

```assembly
jmp .label
```

Often the unconditional jumps are used to simulate a loop. For example we have label and some code after it. This code executes anything, than we have condition and jump to the start of this code if condition is not successfully. The loops will be covered in next parts.

### Program example

> Since we learned some basic arithmetic and control flow instructions, we can write our example. Before we will take a look at the program source code, I will remind that we are going to write a simple program that will calculate the sum of two integer numbers and if the sum equal to the third predefined number we will print a string. Otherwise just exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we've covered basic arithmetic and control flow instructions, we can write a simple program. As a reminder, this program will calculate the sum of two integers and compare it to a predefined third number. If the sum equals the third number, a string will be printed; otherwise, the program will just exit.
```

Here is the source code of our example:

```assembly
;; Definition of the .data section
section .data
    ;; The first number
    num1 dq 0x64
    ;; The second number
    num2 dq 0x32
    ;; The message to print if the sum is correct
    msg  db "The sum is correct!", 10

;; Definition of the .text section
section .text
    ;; Reference to the entry point of our program
    global _start

;; Entry point
_start:
    ;; Set the value of num1 to rax
    mov rax, [num1]
    ;; Set the value of num2 to rbx
    mov rbx, [num2]
    ;; Get the sum of rax and rbx. The result is stored in rax.
    add rax, rbx
.compare:
    ;; Compare the rax value with 150
    cmp rax, 150
    ;; Go to the .exit label if the rax value is not 150
    jne .exit
    ;; Go to the .correctSum label if the rax value is 150
    jmp .correctSum

> ; Print message that the sum is correct

Reviewer: ```suggestion
;; Print a message that the sum is correct
```

.correctSum:
    ;; Specify the system call number (1 is `sys_write`).
    mov rax, 1
    ;; Set the first argument of `sys_write` to 1 (`stdout`).
    mov rdi, 1
    ;; Set the second argument of `sys_write` to the reference of the `msg` variable.        
    mov rsi, msg
    ;; Set the third argument to the length of the `msg` variable's value (20 bytes).
    mov rdx, 20
    ;; Call the `sys_write` system call.
    syscall

>     ; Go to the exit of the program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ;; Go to the exit of the program.
```

    jmp .exit

> ; exit procedure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
;; Exit procedure
```

.exit:
    ;; Specify the number of the system call (60 is `sys_exit`).
    mov rax, 60
    ;; Set the first argument of `sys_exit` to 0. The 0 status code is success.
    mov rdi, 0
    ;; Call the `sys_exit` system call.
    syscall
```

> First of all let's try to build, run our program with the similar commands that we have seen in the previous chapter and see the result:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, let's build and run our program using the commands we learned in the previous chapter to see the result:
```

Reviewer: What do these commands do? Do they really both build and run the program? Or only build? Because below we have the command that actually runs the program:

> After we built our program, we can run it with:

Author: Yes, nice catch. Removed 'run' from the original sentence.

```bash
$ nasm -f elf64 -o program.o program.asm
$ ld -o program program.o
```

> After we built our program, we can run it with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After building the program, we can run it with:
```

```bash
~$ ./program
Sum is correct
```

> Now let's go through the source code of our program. First of all there is the `.data` section with three variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's go through the source code of our program. First of all, there is the `.data` section with three variables:
```

- `num1`
- `num2`
- `msg`

> The entry point of our program is the `_start` symbol. In the beginning of the source code of our program we put the values of the `num1` and `num2` to the general purpose registers `rax` and `rbx`. After this we can use the `add` instruction to get the sum of these two values. The result of the sum will be stored in the `rax` register.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The entry point of our program is the `_start` symbol. At the beginning of the source code, we put the values of `num1` and `num2` to the general purpose registers `rax` and `rbx`. Then, we use the `add` instruction to calculate their sum, which will be stored in the `rax` register.
```

> According to the description of our program, now we have to compare the sum of two numbers with the predefined number. We do it with the `cmp` instruction. At this point we have two ways to go. The first one - we jump to the `.exit` label if the value of the `rax` (that stores sum of the `num1` and `num2` values) is not equal to `150`. If the sum is equal to `150`, we jump to the `.correctSum` label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on our program's description, the next step is to compare the sum of the two numbers with the predefined value. We use the `cmp` instruction for this. At this point, there are two possible outcomes:

- If the value in the `rax` register (which stores the sum of `num1` and `num2`) is not equal to 150, we jump to the `.exit` label.
- If the sum is equal to 150, we jump to the `.correctSum` label.
```

> The source code of the both `.correctSum` and `.exit` sub-routines should be familiar to us. They both do very similar what we already have seen in the previous chapter. The `.correctSum` sub-routine prints the string from the `msg` to the screen. The `.exit` sub-routine provides us graceful exit from our program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The source code of both `.correctSum` and `.exit` sub-routines should look familiar, as they are similar to what we covered in the previous chapter. The `.correctSum` sub-routine prints the string from `msg` to the screen, while the `.exit` sub-routine ensures a graceful exit from the program.
```

> That is it for this post. In the next post we will continue to dive into assembly programming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’ve just written our second program — great job! In the next post, we’ll continue exploring assembly programming. If you have any questions or thoughts, feel free to reach out. See you in the next post!
```

Reviewer: Not sure if it's not too cheerful, though 🤔

Author: No, very good

A processor has a very restricted count of registers. As we already know, an `x86_64` processor gives us access to the `16` general purpose registers. This number is very limited. We may need more or even much more space to store our data. The one of the way to solve this issue is using the program's stack. Basically we can look at the stack as at the usual concept of memory area, but with the single significant difference - the access pattern. With the usual [RAM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Random-access_memory) model we can access any byte of the memory which is accessible to our user-level application. The stack is accessed as [last in, first out](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stack_(abstract_data_type)) pattern. There are two special instructions that are used to push a value on the stack and pop a value from it:

- `push` - push the operand on the stack.
- `pop` - pop the top value from the stack.

> The stack grows downwards from the high addresses to low. So, basically when we hear `top of the stack`, it means the lowest address. The general purpose registers `rsp` always should point to the top of the stack. In the [system call](#system-call) section, we have seen that first six arguments of a system call are passed in the general purpose registers. According to the calling conventions document:

Author: yes, especially technically it could be not always... so I replaced with `should point`

- `rdi` - used to pass the first argument to a function.
- `rsi` - used to pass the second argument to a function.
- `rdx` - used to pass the third argument to a function.
- `rcx` - used to pass the fourth argument to a function.
- `r8` - used to pass the fifth argument to a function.
- `r9` - used to pass the sixth argument to a function.

Let's take a look at the assembly code of the a bit artificial functions written in C programming language:

```C
int foo(int arg1, int arg2, int arg3, int arg4, int arg5, int arg6, int arg7, int arg8) {
    return arg1 + arg2 + arg3 + arg4 + arg5 + arg6 + arg7 + arg8;
}

int bar() {
    return foo(1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8);
}
```

If we will compile it and have a look at the assembly code, we will see something like that:

> ```assembly

Author: Fixed as discussed

        ;; Move 4 bytes value from the edx register to the address stored in the rbp register minus 12 bytes offset
        mov     DWORD PTR [rbp-12], edx
        ;; Move 4 bytes value from the ecx register to the address stored in the rbp register minus 16 bytes offset
        mov     DWORD PTR [rbp-16], ecx
        ;; Move 4 bytes value from the r8d register to the address stored in the rbp register minus 20 bytes offset
        mov     DWORD PTR [rbp-20], r8d
        ;; Move 4 bytes value from the r9d register to the address stored in the rbp register minus 24 bytes offset
        mov     DWORD PTR [rbp-24], r9d
        ...
        ... # skip arithmetic operations for now
        ...
        ;; Restore the old rbp
        pop     rbp
        ;; Return from the function
        ret
```

> [!NOTE]
> The C program should be compiled without any optimization flags. You can use `-O0 -masm=intel` flags for compiler to avoid optimization. You can use tools like [godbolt](https://godbolt.org/) to see the assembly output of these functions.

First of all let's take a look at the first two lines of code in the function `bar`:

```assembly
push    rbp
mov     rbp, rsp
```

> The names of these two instructions in the beginning of each function is - [function prologue](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Function_prologue_and_epilogue#Prologue). Each function usually operates with a part of the stack. Such part is called a [stack frame](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_stack). To manage stack CPU is using the several general purpose registers:

Author: `function`, so this is correct

To do the calculation we need to access the input parameters. As you may see it is done using the address stored in the `rbp` register and offsets from it. The offsets are negative as you may remember the stack grows down towards lower addresses. At first we move the value stored in the `edi` register (the first argument of the `foo` function) to address stored in the `rbp` register with the `-4` (the offset is negative because you should remember that stack grows down) bytes offset. After that we move the value stored in the `esi` register (the second argument of the `foo` function) to the address stored in the `rbp` register with the `-8` bytes offset. We repeat these operations for the all six input arguments.

Now take a look one more time very carefully:

> to the address stored in the `rbp` register with the `N` byte offset

> What was the address stored in the `rbp`? Our stack pointer! So after the last `mov` instruction in the function `foo`, our stack frame will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What was the address stored in the `rbp` register? Our stack pointer! So after the last `mov` instruction in the function `foo`, our stack frame will look like this:
```

![stack](./assets/stack.svg)

> That is the whole sense of the `rbp`. It plays role of an anchor in the function or a base point. Using the positive offsets we may access the return address and the parameters pushed on the stack by the caller and using the negative offsets we may access local variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is the whole point of the `rbp` register. It plays the role of an anchor or a base point in the function. Using the positive offsets, we can access the return address and parameters pushed onto the stack by the caller. On the other hand, negative offsets allow us to access local variables of the current function.
```

> Right before the return from the `foo` function we may see so called [function epilogue](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Function_prologue_and_epilogue#Epilogue) we restore the initial value of the `rbp` by removing it from the stack. The last `ret` instruction pops the return address from the stack and the execution continues from this address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Right before returning from the `foo` function, we encounter the so-called [function epilogue](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Function_prologue_and_epilogue#Epilogue). During this step, we restore the initial value of the `rbp` by removing it from the stack. Finally, the last `ret` instruction pops the return address from the stack, and the program's execution continues from this address.
```

Now that we've covered the key concepts, it's time to move on to the most interesting part — writing our second simple assembly program. The program will take two integer numbers, calculate their sum, and compare the result with a third predefined number. If the predefined number is equal to the sum, the program will print a message on the screen; otherwise, it will just exit.

Before diving into the code, we must understand how to execute basic arithmetic and comparison instructions.

### Basic arithmetic instructions

Here is the list of common assembly instructions used for arithmetic operations:

- `ADD`  - Addition
- `SUB`  - Subtraction
- `MUL`  - Unsigned multiplication
- `IMUL` - Signed multiplication
- `DIV`  - Unsigned division
- `IDIV` - Signed division
- `INC`  - Increment
- `DEC`  - Decrement

> - `NEG`  - Negate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `NEG`  - Negation
```

> - `NEG`  - Negation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `NEG`  - Negation
```

```bash
~$ ./program
Sum is correct
```

Now let's go through the source code of our program. First of all, there is the `.data` section with three variables:

- `num1`
- `num2`
- `msg`

The entry point of our program is the `_start` symbol. At the beginning of the source code, we put the values of `num1` and `num2` to the general purpose registers `rax` and `rbx`. Then, we use the `add` instruction to calculate their sum, which will be stored in the `rax` register.

Based on our program's description, the next step is to compare the sum of the two numbers with the predefined value. We use the `cmp` instruction for this. At this point, there are two possible outcomes:

- If the value in the `rax` register (which stores the sum of `num1` and `num2`) is not equal to 150, we jump to the `.exit` label.
- If the sum is equal to 150, we jump to the `.correctSum` label.

The source code of both `.correctSum` and `.exit` sub-routines should look familiar, as they are similar to what we covered in the previous chapter. The `.correctSum` sub-routine prints the string from `msg` to the screen, while the `.exit` sub-routine ensures a graceful exit from the program.

> We’ve just written our second program — great job 🎉 In the next post, we’ll continue exploring assembly programming and dive deeper into the stack topic. If you have any questions or thoughts, feel free to reach out. See you in the next post!

Reviewer: :)
